>> Steve Kinney: So let's just talk for
a minute a little bit more about focus
states and then we'll kind of get into
some of the fun things we can do with
some of the advanced selectors as well.
But first, let's eat our vegetables the
same way we did with borders, rings and
outlines.
There are a few focus states.
Again, this is more CSS is awesome
than tailwind specifically.
Turns out when you take a document viewer
just meant for text from the 90s and
everyone iterates on it for 30 years, you
have a whole bunch of strange properties
and new properties that replace those
strange properties, so on and so forth.
Those are true of css,
thereby they are true of tailwind.
And here we are.
So I just think it's useful to talk about,
so
there's focus and
we'll talk about each one of them.
Then there's also focus visible and
then there's also focus within, right?
Which is both a deep meditative concept
as well as a CSS pseudo selector.
These again, are not tailwind specific,
but if we're going to be playing with this
stuff in tailwind, it makes sense if we
can spend a moment to disambiguate these
so you're not squinting going like,
I don't understand when to use what.
Let's talk about it.
So focus effectively always shows, right?
And so it's true both if I tab onto it
with a keyboard or if I click on it.
If that's the effect that you want,
okay, then good, use focus.
But if you're like, yo,
I had a hover state for the mouse.
But I do want to have some accessibility
stuff for tabbing to a button or
maybe a particular card on the page.
Maybe it's something where it's got a tab
index so they can tab to it, right?
But for people with a mouse, I don't want
to just because they clicked on a card or
a table row or whatever, show that border.
Focus is not going to do what you want
because it's always going to show whenever
they've anything that's tab indexable,
if they've clicked on it,
you're going to get the outline.
We don't want that.
As you can see here,
Focus visible is like the successor,
cause people are like, I don't want that.
So then because you can't change
anything about the web ever,
you can only add more junk onto it, right?
So I was like, I don't like that
focus does that, well, they're like,
well, we can't change focus, so we just
give you another thing on top of it and
focus visible is probably
what you thought you wanted.
If you didn't want the other
thing where hover and click,
I don't get the ring but if I tab
with the keyboard then I do, right?.
And stuff where it is you have
the keyboard navigation both for
accessibility.
For the last few years have worked on
Developer Tools UIs for developer tools.
Turns out you know who else likes
to use the keyboard to get around?
Developers and so
I use this one a lot as well.
But I don't always want it if
they are just using mouse.
Maybe I want a different set of styles.
The other one that is fun is focus within.
You'll see that I put
these inside of a border.
Focus within you can see
is on the parent element.
We will use all of these.
Don't worry,
we're just doing the thought process.
Part of this focus within is on
the parent element which is to say you
can reverse engineer this from the words.
If anything inside of it is focused
then it will get that style right.
So if you have this, like in this case,
imagine this was a form.
I just didn't make it a form because
I don't actually wanna submit.
If anything inside of this is focused,
then the entire you know,
then this parent is focused as well.
So those are three.
They're all CSS properties.
You have them all to work with.
They have the tailwind variants so
that instead of making again another
pseudo selector every time, you just
simply print prefix how you want the
classes applied in those given situations.